doc/install.rst, before:

.. _install:

====================
Install instructions
====================

BSL requires Python version `3.6` or higher. BSL is available on
`GitHub <https://github.com/bsl-tools/bsl>`_ and on
`Pypi <https://pypi.org/project/bsl/>`_.

- **GitHub**: Clone the `main repository <https://github.com/bsl-tools/bsl>`_
  and install with ``setup.py``

  .. code-block:: console

      $ python setup.py install

  For the developer mode, use ``develop`` instead of ``install``.

- **Pypi**: Install BSL using ``pip``

  .. code-block:: console

      $ pip install bsl

- **Conda**: A conda-forge distribution is not yet available.

=====================
Optional dependencies
=====================

BSL installs the following dependencies:

- `numpy <https://numpy.org/>`_
- `scipy <https://www.scipy.org/>`_
- `mne <https://mne.tools/stable/index.html>`_
- `pylsl <https://github.com/labstreaminglayer/liblsl-Python>`_
- `pyqt5 <https://www.riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/>`_
- `pyqtgraph <https://www.pyqtgraph.org/>`_

Additional functionalities requires:

- `psychopy <https://www.psychopy.org/>`_: for the parallel port triggers.
- `pyserial <https://github.com/pyserial/pyserial>`_: for the parallel port
  trigger using an :ref:`arduino2lpt`.
- `vispy <https://vispy.org/>`_: for the `~bsl.StreamViewer` vispy backend.

===========================
Installing pylsl and liblsl
===========================

`pylsl <https://github.com/labstreaminglayer/liblsl-Python>`_ requires a binary
library, called ``liblsl`` to operate. But the binary library might not been
downloaded alongside `pylsl`.

To test if `pylsl <https://github.com/labstreaminglayer/liblsl-Python>`_ is
working, try the following command in a terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -c 'import pylsl'

If it didn't raise an error, congratulation, you have a working setup! However,
if an error is raised, please refer to the instructions below or to the
`LabStreamingLayer Slack <https://labstreaminglayer.slack.com>`_.

.. collapse:: |linux| Linux

    Start by installing ``libpugixml-dev``, a light-weight C++ XML processing
    library.

    .. code-block:: console

        $ sudo apt install -y libpugixml-dev

    Fetch the correct binary from the
    `liblsl release page <https://github.com/sccn/liblsl/releases>`_. If your
    distribution is not available, the binary library must be build.

    At the time of writing, the binary version ``1.15.2`` for Ubuntu 18.04
    (bionic) and for Ubuntu 20.04 (focal) are available.

    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

.. collapse:: |apple| macOS

    Fetch the correct binary from the
    `liblsl release page <https://github.com/sccn/liblsl/releases>`_.

    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

    Alternatively, ``homebrew`` can be used to download and set the binary
    library with the command:

    .. code-block:: console

        $ brew install labstreaminglayer/tap/lsl

.. collapse:: |windows| Windows

    Fetch the correct binary from the
    `liblsl release page <https://github.com/sccn/liblsl/releases>`_.

    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

=====================
Test the installation
=====================

To test the installation, you can run a fake stream with a `~bsl.StreamPlayer`
and display it with a `~bsl.StreamViewer`.

- Download a sample :ref:`bsl.datasets<datasets>`:

  .. code-block:: python

      import bsl
      dataset = bsl.datasets.eeg_resting_state.data_path()
      print (dataset)  # displays the path to the -raw.fif dataset

- Run a `~bsl.StreamPlayer` either from a python console or from terminal using
  the downloaded sample dataset ``resting_state-raw.fif``.

  In a python console:

  .. code-block:: python

      import bsl
      dataset = bsl.datasets.eeg_resting_state.data_path()
      player = StreamPlayer('TestStream', dataset)
      player.start()

  In terminal, navigate to the folder containing the dataset
  (``~/bsl_data/eeg_sample``):

  .. code-block:: console

      $ bsl_stream_player TestStream resting_state-raw.fif

- Run a `~bsl.StreamViewer` from a different terminal:

  .. code-block:: console

      $ bsl_stream_viewer

The `~bsl.StreamViewer` should load and display:

.. image:: _static/stream_viewer/stream_viewer.gif
   :alt: StreamViewer
   :align: center

Commit message:

add links.inc to group links and substitutions

doc/install.rst, after:

.. include:: ./links.inc

.. _install:

====================
Install instructions
====================

BSL requires Python version ``3.6`` or higher. BSL is available on `GitHub`_
and on `Pypi <https://pypi.org/project/bsl/>`_.

- **GitHub**: Clone the `main repository <https://github.com/bsl-tools/bsl>`_
  and install with ``setup.py``

  .. code-block:: console

      $ python setup.py install

  For the developer mode, use ``develop`` instead of ``install``.

- **Pypi**: Install BSL using ``pip``

  .. code-block:: console

      $ pip install bsl

- **Conda**: A conda-forge distribution is not yet available.

=====================
Optional dependencies
=====================

BSL installs the following dependencies:

- `numpy`_
- `scipy`_
- `mne`_
- `pylsl`_
- `pyqt5`_
- `pyqtgraph`_

Additional functionalities requires:

- `psychopy`_: for the parallel port triggers.
- `pyserial`_: for the parallel port trigger using an :ref:`arduino2lpt`.
- `vispy <https://vispy.org/>`_: for the `~bsl.StreamViewer` vispy backend.

===========================
Installing pylsl and liblsl
===========================

`pylsl`_ requires a binary library, called ``liblsl`` to operate. But the
binary library might not been downloaded alongside `pylsl`_.

To test if `pylsl`_ is working, try the following command in a terminal:

.. code-block:: console

    $ python -c 'import pylsl'

If it didn't raise an error, congratulation, you have a working setup! However,
if an error is raised, please refer to the instructions below or to the
`LabStreamingLayer Slack <https://labstreaminglayer.slack.com>`_.

.. collapse:: Linux

    Start by installing ``libpugixml-dev``, a light-weight C++ XML processing
    library.

    .. code-block:: console

        $ sudo apt install -y libpugixml-dev

    Fetch the correct binary from the `liblsl release page`_. If your
    distribution is not available, the binary library must be build.
    At the time of writing, the binary version ``1.15.2`` for Ubuntu 18.04
    (bionic) and for Ubuntu 20.04 (focal) are available.
    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

.. collapse:: macOS

    Fetch the correct binary from the `liblsl release page`_. If your
    distribution is not available, the binary library must be build.
    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

    Alternatively, ``homebrew`` can be used to download and set the binary
    library with the command:

    .. code-block:: console

        $ brew install labstreaminglayer/tap/lsl

.. collapse:: Windows

    Fetch the correct binary from the `liblsl release page`_. If your
    distribution is not available, the binary library must be build.
    Create an environment variable named ``PYLSL_LIB`` that contains the path
    to the downloaded binary library.

=====================
Test the installation
=====================

To test the installation, you can run a fake stream with a `~bsl.StreamPlayer`
and display it with a `~bsl.StreamViewer`.

- Download a sample :ref:`bsl.datasets<datasets>`:

  .. code-block:: python

      import bsl
      dataset = bsl.datasets.eeg_resting_state.data_path()
      print (dataset)  # displays the path to the -raw.fif dataset

- Run a `~bsl.StreamPlayer` either from a python console or from terminal using
  the downloaded sample dataset ``resting_state-raw.fif``.

  In a python console:

  .. code-block:: python

      import bsl
      dataset = bsl.datasets.eeg_resting_state.data_path()
      player = StreamPlayer('TestStream', dataset)
      player.start()

  In terminal, navigate to the folder containing the dataset
  (``~/bsl_data/eeg_sample``):

  .. code-block:: console

      $ bsl_stream_player TestStream resting_state-raw.fif

- Run a `~bsl.StreamViewer` from a different terminal:

  .. code-block:: console

      $ bsl_stream_viewer

The `~bsl.StreamViewer` should load and display:

.. image:: _static/stream_viewer/stream_viewer.gif
   :alt: StreamViewer
   :align: center
